The Joe Rogan experience.
Now, obviously the next course of progression for a guy like you would be MMA.
Yeah. Now I know that you had talked about doing MMA in the past,
but now it seems like it's actually gonna happen.
Yeah. Um,
so John doesn't want me to compete in MMA because he feels like jujitsu is just
about to break into that next level of professional sports. Uh,
so for me, at least right now,
I feel like I need at least someone from my team to be able to do the things
that I'm doing before I can kinda move away from jujitsu into MMA.
Because right now we have Gary MMA, he's carrying our flag,
our team's flag in MMA. And we have me at the top of the heap in jujitsu.
So like if Craig or Gira and my brother, um,
can start doing the things that I'm doing and they win in, ATCC absolute maybe,
or, you know,
they go out and they start beating and submitting all the high level guys.
Then I feel like maybe I can leave, uh, jujitsu. Cause if I start fighting MMA,
I'm gonna focus on MMA. Um,
so I feel like if one of my teammates can kind of take my place,
then I can start moving into MMA and then go from there.
So you look at it as a, you really do genuinely look at it as a team effort.
You're not looking at just as your, as an individual.
Most athletes are very selfish and they just take, take, take. Whereas we have,
we have a, we have a very great, a very good team cohesion and, uh, you know,
we're always looking out for one another and, you know,
I find that that's the way that people operate best. Um,
if you look at most teams,
it's basically just a bunch of tough guys in a room would train together who
have no loyalty. And if someone offers them a better deal,
they're gonna go somewhere else and, and train there. Um, whereas without like,
uh, whereas with us, we're very loyal to John and, uh, you know,
everything that everything that we do is the same.
Like my game is very similar to, John's very similar, what to,
Gary's very similar to Craig's we all are taught by John and we all follow the
same ideas and the same philosophy of jujitsu.
So the loyalty within the team is, uh, is very strong. And, uh, you know,
I, I feel that it's, it's always gonna be a team effort. Um, you know, without,
without John, I wouldn't be as good as I am without Gary.
I wouldn't be as good as am without Nikki.
It's the collaborative of minds in the gym that, that really pushes you forward.
Um, so, you know, I feel like we're different in that,
in that sense that we're not a team that recruits people,
we're a team that builds that builds athletes from almost the ground up.
Like you see like, uh, you know, a lot of the big MMA teams, uh,
or even the big jujitsu teams like Altos, for example, they recruit guys,
guys who are already successful. They recruit him,
they give him a place to live. They give him a training program and they,
they just recruit tough guys.
But if you look at a guy like Andre and you look at his black belts,
they all have vastly different games.
NY end's game is different than Andre's hanger's game is different than Andre's
Keenan's game is different than, than Andre's.
And it's basically just a team of recruited guys who are a bunch of tough guys
training in the same room. Whereas John,
we have a team of homegrown guys who all do the same thing.
Like they all have the discernible games that all mimic what John teaches, uh,
and they just have, you know,
slight changes and variations due to our physical attributes and, and, uh, and,
and, uh, personalities.
Now, when you say you think of it as a team,
you mean this is taken it to a completely different level,
cuz you're not willing to progress your career outside the realm of jujitsu
until someone else can carry the crown. Yes.
That's that's next level commitment to the team philosophy.
Yeah. I mean, like I said, you have a guy like John,
who's like the most selfless person in the world.
Like he shows up every day and he gives you everything. Like, you know, I want,
I want what's best for the team. Uh, even if it's not what's best for me,
you know, I wanna, I want what's what's best for, for, for John's team. Uh,
you know,
I want him to go down in history as being the guy who has the absolute best
team in the world. And, um, you know,
right now you can make the argument that sure. You know,
Gordon's the best in the world,
but the rest of the guys don't win as much as him. So I, I want to get those,
the rest of the guys on my team to,
to my level so that you don't have the argument anymore. Of sure. Gordon's good.
But he's the only one who really wins when it counts. Um, you know, I want,
I want to go into ADCC with my team and I wanna win every single division.
So that would be insane that, you know,
that's not outside the realm of possibility either. That's.
What's crazy. Yeah. I mean, next year we have, Gary might cut to 66 kilos.
So if Gary's at 66, my brother will be at 77. Craig will be at 88,
I'll be at 99. They let me do division. And then Nick rot will be at 99. Plus.
What do you mean if they let you do the division?
So for ADCC, when you win the absolute, you go to the super fight.
So the, the, the, the,
the super fight champion fights the winner of the absolute.
Now I won the absolute last year, so I'm only supposed to have one fight,
but I've requested do the weight division as well.
Cuz you normally would just do the super fight, but I wanna do the super fight.
And I also wanna do my weight division. So I have, instead of having one match,
I'd had five matches. No one's ever asked to do that.
People have asked to do the absolute before,
but the problem is if I win the absolute and then I win the
super fight, the super fight winner's supposed to fight the absolute.
So you can't fight yourself, right? So you,
it doesn't make sense to do the super fight and the absolute,
but it does make sense to do the weight division and the absolute. So if I,
if I, if they let me do the weight division,
I'll be the first person in history to ever, to ever do the weight division,
plus the super fight at the same time.
Wow. Now how is Gary juggling training for MMA and, and jus.
That guy's a machine. He basically just, he didn't,
he didn't do less jujitsu to do MMA.
He just added MMA on top of the jujitsu sessions.
So he trains MMA seven days a week and he spars lightly seven days a week.
And then he finishes that.
And right now we don't have a gym set up in Puerto Rico.
So we're working around the schedule, the class schedule of the gym owner.
So we have, mm.
He does MMA at nine and then he trains for like an hour spars.
Then he has like a 30 minute break and then he does, uh,
and then he does jujitsu at 11 and he just adds the session on.
So he does MMA to seven days a week.
And like within like two hours of each other.
And when he's training MMA, he's also grappling. Yeah. So he's grappling twice.
Yeah.
Most, most of the MMA training is, is shoot.
Boxing is standing to take downs because he is already so good on the ground.
He needs to get, he needs to work and fence wrestling and, and shoot boxing.
Uh, but he definitely, he definitely is some grappling when he does MMA.
So he grapples and, and spars,
and then he pretty much goes right to jujitsu and has to do that. So, I mean,
that's definitely not an easy thing to do.
And seven days a week is definitely not an easy thing to do. And.
How is he doing it in terms of striking coaching? Like, is he,
did he bring someone with him to Puerto Rico?
Was he using a different in New York? What's.
He doing? He, he uses John. John is our striking coach. Really? I'm telling you,
John knows just as much about every martial artist as he does jujitsu.
Like John is our wrestling coach. John's our jujitsu coach.
John's our striking coach. John's our MMA coach. Like John coaches, Gary,
for every aspect of MMA wall wrestling, everything. Holy. Yeah.
So he coaches him for kicking and everything. Yeah.
Dude, people know this about John John's first martial art was Moai.
John did Moai for over a decade when he was growing up and he studied all the
best Mo Thai guys. I mean, John knows a lot about striking. I mean, he,
he coach, like I said, like, people know this about John.
They think he's just a leg lot guy or just the grad or like he coaches Gary.
And like, Gary's like, he's progressing fast. As far as the striking he's going,
um, he's only been striking for a year and a half now. And he's, uh, you know,
he looks, he looks comfortable out there. He does. Um.
And, uh, that's shocking that he is only been doing it a year and a half. Yeah.
A year and a half, two years maybe. Uh, but yeah, John's his coach, John, John,
John coaches, everything <laugh>.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while you using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Good experience.